all right let's bring in Al senior
political analyst Mar Bashar Mar as we
see there that the terrible uh
atrocities continue in Gaza don't they
and I just want to bring this point to
you the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
netan who is saying that Israel has no
intention of permanently occupying Gaza
or displacing its civilian population
it's fighting Hamas terrorists not the
Palestinian population and we're doing
so in full compliance with international
law saying it's ahead of this icj uh
case tomorrow that South Africa's we'll
talk about in a minute but what do you
make of that first of all I think the
key word here is permanently that Israel
will not permanently occupy uh the Gaza
Strip of course Israel has for 56 years
temporarily occupied uh West Bank Gaza
and East Jerusalem it's always
temporarily the biggest problem of all
in international relations is when the
temporary becomes permanent so while
he's saying we're not going to do it
temporarily I think no one takes him
seriously because Israel has been
occupying Palestinian lands for more
than 56 years I think there's this
there's a tone of
desperation uh in the in the voice of uh
prime minister Netanyahu especially when
it comes uh after blinkin had apparently
some tense conversation with the
Israelis because you see I think we need
to underline this once and
again I mean Israel needs to be really
grateful to the United States but not
for the obvious reasons which is arming
Israel financing Israel shielding Israel
International Arena and so on so forth
these are clear reasons why Israel needs
to thank its
stars for American uh assistant but
above all today Israel should be
grateful to America's
advice the fact that Israel has not been
listening the past three months
makes
it stupid I mean to put it simply and
clearly because what Biden is telling
the Israelis now for example is that
there is a court the the the oldest the
most the world's Court the icj the
international court of justice is
discussing your genocide you presumably
the sons and the grandchildren of the
Holocaust Survivors you are being
accused of genocide and that's that's
happening tomorrow morning at the ha
Absolut the start of the process and
there's a good case to be made and
that's why the icj is discussing it and
South Africa with a long history of
being victim of aparted and and
international silence and so forth is
the one that's bringing the case with
the international Court the fact that
Israel would not even entertain for a
good number of weeks now months
humanitarian a to the Palestinians
avoiding civilian casualties so much so
that the American president talked about
Israel indiscriminate bombings of Gaza
which is a violation of international
law and a war crime and so so forth
that's by the American president himself
so linkoln and other American officials
have been urging the Israelis to act
more diplomatically more humanely keep
up the appearance at least at least the
as the United States have been doing of
respecting human rights and and the
value of human life right but Israel has
not been doing though until the last 48
hours now the United Israel is talking
about allowing humanitarian in allowing
the United Nations to go up to Gaza and
finally the prime minister of Israel
saying well you know we haven't really
been killing it's Hamas been killing
them it's desperate it's a bit too late
unfortunately for okay we got a minute
or so left Maran so this this case as I
say coming before the the United Nations
Top Court the icj hey tomorrow and what
it's going to go on for some time for
months maybe even years but what could
come from it is this interim measure
which would aim to Halt Israel's ongoing
assaults uh what are the prospects of
that do you think I think it's somewhere
between possible and probable more I
lean towards probable there's a very
good case made by the South African I
read it a couple of times the case is
very strong against Israel for the way
it conducted this war unfortunately I
must emphasize that the Palestinians in
Gaza will not be watching uh the
proceedings of the court because they
are too busy dying M they are too busy
looking for shelter they are too busy
looking for clean water and food in Gaza
so the people who are being discussed at
the hag absolutely have no time to watch
because they are dying they are in
hospitals and they are taking care of
their loved ones so this will be
somewhere between possible and probable
hopefully there will be a decision by
the court to ask Israel to seize and
desist basically to stop the war until
further discussions at the court will
Israel listen probably not most probably
not will the United States put then more
pressure hopefully yes all right well
we'll see how things pan out from
Tomorrow Mar for the time being thanks
very
much